Onboarding System (#844)
italia/eid-wallet-it-docs: docs/en/onboarding-high-level.rst

Reviewer: @fmarino-ipzs "User" must be capital letter, would you mind amending the instances?

.. include:: ../common/common_definitions.rst

Onboarding System
============================

> The IT-Wallet ecosystem operates as a federated trust infrastructure where participating entities must establish cryptographic trust relationships and maintain compliance with common security standards.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The IT-Wallet ecosystem operates as a federated trust infrastructure where participants establish trust relationships and maintain compliance with common security standards.
```

Authentic Source Registration Process
---------------------------------------

Authentic Source registration allows data providers to establish their authoritative role in the Digital Credential ecosystem through the registration of their data capabilities and standardized access mechanisms based on the Claims Registry and Taxonomy classifications.

Authentic Source entities MUST undergo registration procedures that validate their data authority, declare their available claims from the standardized Claims Registry, and establish technical integration mechanisms. Authentic Source entities specify intended use cases (formally ``purposes``) that determine catalog eligibility per Supervisory Body policies. 

Public Authentic Sources MUST leverage PDND integration to provide government data through standardized national infrastructure.

Private Authentic Sources MAY establish custom service interfaces that accommodate specific organizational or regulatory requirements. 

Both pathways MUST assure data quality standards and establish audit trails for all data provisioning activities.

> **AS-CI Coordination Process**: Following AS registration, Credential Issuers identify suitable AS entities through the AS Registry and request integration authorization during the administrative registration phase. For regulatory mandates, authorization MUST be automatic. Otherwise, Authentic Sources entities evaluate and authorize Credential Issuers requests based on business and technical criteria. Following administrative authorization, technical integration procedures establish the operational data access relationships before credential type catalog publication.

Reviewer 2: I would not use acronyms here, but extended defined names

Successfully registered Authentic Sources MUST be included in the AS Registry with their declared claims and capability. Credential types MUST become publicly discoverable in the :ref:`registry:Digital Credentials Catalog` only after successful AS-CI integration and Supervisory Body policy approval for catalog eligibility.

Technical implementation procedures for Authentic Source registration are provided in :ref:`entity-onboarding:Authentic Sources Registration Process`.

Federation Onboarding Process
-------------------------------

> Federation onboarding establishes the cryptographic trust relationships and compliance frameworks that enable operational entities to participate in secure credential lifecycle activities.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Federation onboarding establishes the trust relationships and compliance frameworks that enable operational entities to participate in secure Credential lifecycle activities.
```

> Operational entities MUST complete onboarding that includes administrative eligibility verification, technical infrastructure validation, and cryptographic trust establishment. The onboarding process creates cryptographic trust relationships through certificate issuance, trust chain configuration, and compliance attestation. These mechanisms enable secure interactions among federation participants and provide the foundation for distributed trust validation across the ecosystem.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Operational entities MUST complete onboarding that includes administrative eligibility verification, technical infrastructure validation, and trust establishment. The onboarding process creates cryptographic trust relationships through certificate issuance, trust chain evaluation, and compliance attestation. These mechanisms enable secure interactions among federation participants and provide the foundation for distributed trust validation across the ecosystem.
```

I have read some similar texts few pages above, I would reduce repetitions

    - **Use Case Justification**: Workplace security requiring employee identification and access control.
    - **Authorization Scope**: Granted access to ``MEMBERSHIP`` domain, ``ASSOCIATION`` purpose.
    - **Credential Discovery**: Badge available only via private Credential Offer (non-eligible for Credential Catalog).

Technical integration focuses on developing authentication flows that can verify Digital Credentials presented by Users. This includes implementing cryptographic verification mechanisms and establishing secure communication channels with the federation infrastructure.

Service authorization by the Supervisory Body MUST involve policy-based evaluation that considers organizational type (private vs public administration), business sector classification, and legitimate service requirements. The authorization process grants specific operational scopes that define which Credential domains and purposes the Relying Party can request. Following approval, the Relying Party is registered in the Federation Registry with clearly defined authorization boundaries for Digital Credentials and User's attributes acceptance.

> End User Experience Journey
> -------------------------------
> 
> .. figure:: ./images/svg/onboarding-journey-maps/ux-onboarding-journey.svg
>     :width: 100%
>     :alt: End user experience journey
>     :name: user-experience-journey
> 
>     Complete user journey from wallet installation to service access
> 
> When all entity onboarding processes are successfully completed, Users can discover and install certified Wallet Instances and the new available Credential. 
> 
> Credential discovery happens through two main pathways:
> 
>     - **Credential Catalog browsing**: Users can explore available Credential types through a Credential Catalog.
>     - **Credential Offers**: Direct Credential Offer from Authentic Sources or Credential Issuers for specific Credentials.
> 
> The service access phase demonstrates the value of the complete ecosystem, where users can present their Digital Credentials to registered Relying Party services for authenticated access. This seamless integration depends on all relevant entities having completed their respective onboarding journeys.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
User Experience Journey
-------------------------------

When all entity onboarding processes are successfully completed, Users can discover and install certified Wallet Instances, obtain available Digital Credentials and present their Digital Credentials to registered Relying Parties (see :ref:`functionalities:Functionalities Overview`) 

This seamless integration depends on all relevant entities having completed their respective onboarding journeys.
```

We suggest this edit to avoid repetition of topics already covered in the Functionalities section, User Experience design chapter.

Reviewer: @fmarino-ipzs
